---
title: Using Push Options in Gitlab CI/CD
date: 2021-04-05 13:49:20
author: George
authorTwitter: GeorgeBornAgain
cover: covers/20210405-push-option.jpg
tags: [Git, Option, CI, CD, Gitlab]
keywords: [Git, Option, CI, CD, Gitlab]
description: When using CI/CD, it can be cumbersome to execute different operations based on parameters, such as enabling `verbose` mode during debugging.
showFullContent: false
readingTime: false
---

Recently, due to adjustments in our company's container cloud environment, I needed to adapt previously stable CI/CD configuration files to the new runtime environment. After modifying the CI/CD configuration file, I confidently executed `git push`. Of course, it didn't pass, otherwise this article wouldn't exist...

Since everything had been running stably before, I hadn't enabled `verbose` mode during deployment. As a result, I couldn't determine the specific reason for the CI/CD execution failure. I didn't want to keep `verbose` mode enabled all the time, so I looked through Gitlab's documentation to see if I could control whether to enable `verbose` mode through environment variables.

This search indeed led me to a viable solution, along with other discoveries.

# Push option

This feature is provided by Git, allowing you to attach user-defined Push options when executing the `git push` command. In Gitlab's documentation, I discovered that this feature can be used to skip CI/CD. Why would you want to do this? For instance, when we're frequently debugging, we might not want every Push to trigger CI/CD. In that case, we can use the following command to skip the CI/CD pipeline:

```bash
git push -o ci.skip
```

> ci.skip is a predefined option in Gitlab. For more options, see [Gitlab's official documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/push_options.html#push-options).

# Using custom variables

Since Gitlab can receive Git Push option values, I had a bold idea: could we control whether to enable `verbose` mode through custom environment variables?

So I added the following configuration to the project's `.gitlab-ci.yml` file:

```yml
stages:
  - deploy
variables:
  VERBOSE: "" # The default value here is an empty string

deploy:preview:
  image: betterde/deployer:6.8.0
  only:
    refs:
      - develop
  stage: deploy
  tags:
    - DevOps
  script:
    - deployer deploy preview $VERBOSE
```

`VERBOSE` is what we use to receive the `-vvv` parameter. Note that in the configuration file, we set this variable to an empty string value, and in the `script` block, we directly use `$VERBOSE` to get the environment variable value (don't wrap it in double quotes, otherwise it will be recognized as a parameter even if it's empty).

We only need to execute the following command to control whether to enable `verbose` mode:

```bash
# Default: not enabled
git push

# When debugging requires enabling it
git push -o ci.variable="VERBOSE=-vvv"

# If you need to pass multiple parameters:
git push -o ci.variable="ONE=1" -o ci.variable="TWO=2"
```

At this point, we've achieved more fine-grained control over CI/CD, so let those freed-up hands do more meaningful things!

I hope this is helpful, Happy hacking...