---
title: Preparing Kubernetes Cluster Environment
date: 2022-09-28T11:50:43+08:00
author: George
authorTwitter: GeorgeBornAgain
cover: covers/20220928-kubernetes-runtime.jpg
tags: [Cloud Native, Kubernetes Cluster]
keywords: [Docker, Containerd, Kubernetes, K8s, Ubuntu, Linux, Cluster]
description: Recording the preparation for installing a Kubernetes cluster and some pitfalls encountered.
showFullContent: false
readingTime: false
draft: false
---

# Prerequisites

* CPU: 2 Core
* RAM: >= 2Gb
* OS: Ubuntu Server 22.04 LTS
* Kubeadm v1.25.2
* Kubelet v1.25.2
* Kubectl v1.25.2
* Containerd.io
* Proxy (Optional, not needed if your network environment can access Google services normally)

> It is recommended not to clone virtual machines to deploy other nodes, otherwise some unpredictable errors may occur due to conflicts with Host, MAC, and UUID!

# Environment Information

My virtual machines are all running in the 10.0.8.0/24 network segment, and I'm running Surge Proxy on my macOS. The specific IP information is as follows:

* S01: 10.0.8.81 (cluster-master)
* S02: 10.0.8.82 (cluster-node)
* S03: 10.0.8.83 (cluster-node)
* macOS: 10.0.8.18

All Google sources used below will use macOS as a proxy.

# Installing ZSH

This is optional. The main reason for using ZSH is to use the `zsh-autosuggestions` plugin, which can greatly improve efficiency when managing Kubernetes.

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ >}}
sudo apt install zsh
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
git clone https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-autosuggestions ${ZSH_CUSTOM:-~/.oh-my-zsh/custom}/plugins/zsh-autosuggestions
{{< /prismjs >}}

After completing the above commands, edit the `~/.zshrc` file to add the `zsh-autosuggestions` plugin:
```
plugins=( 
    # other plugins...
    zsh-autosuggestions
)
```

Apply ZSH settings:

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ >}}
source ~/.zshrc
{{< /prismjs >}}

# Disable Swap

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ >}}
sudo swapoff -a
sudo rm /swap.img
{{< /prismjs >}}

Edit the `/etc/fstab` file, delete the line containing `swap.img`, if it doesn't exist, ignore it:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
# / was on /dev/sda2 during curtin installation
/dev/disk/by-uuid/df8f75a8-980b-4055-bafa-5bdef04872b9 / ext4 defaults 0 1
/swap.img	none	swap	sw	0	0
```

# Configure Network Forwarding

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ output="2-5,8-9,11-16" >}}
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/modules-load.d/k8s.conf
overlay
br_netfilter
EOF

sudo modprobe overlay
sudo modprobe br_netfilter

# Set required sysctl parameters, these persist across reboots
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf
net.bridge.bridge-nf-call-iptables  = 1
net.bridge.bridge-nf-call-ip6tables = 1
net.ipv4.ip_forward                 = 1
EOF

# Apply sysctl parameters without reboot
sudo sysctl --system
{{< /prismjs >}}

# Install Containerd

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ continuation-str=\"\\" output="2-3,10-11,14-15,19,22-23" >}}
sudo apt-get remove docker docker-engine docker.io containerd runc

# Update APT package index and install packages
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install \
    ca-certificates \
    curl \
    gnupg \
    lsb-release

# Add Docker's official GPG key
sudo mkdir -p /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg

# Set up APT repository address
echo \
  "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
  $(lsb_release -cs) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install containerd.io

# Install docker engine and compose plugin (optional)
sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli docker-compose-plugin
{{< /prismjs >}}

## Configure Containerd

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ >}}
sudo rm -rf /etc/containerd/conf.toml
containerd config default | sudo tee /etc/containerd/config.toml
{{< /prismjs >}}

Edit the `/etc/containerd/config.toml` configuration file, set runc to use systemd cgroup driver:
{{< prismjs lang=toml line="4" >}}
[plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc]
  ...
  [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc.options]
    SystemdCgroup = true
{{< /prismjs >}}

Change the value of `SystemdCgroup` from the default false to true, then restart Containerd.

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ >}}
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl restart containerd
{{< /prismjs >}}

## Containerd Proxy
This part is optional. If your network environment can access Google services normally, it is not needed. Also note that if you configure a proxy, you need to cancel the proxy configuration after pulling the images, otherwise it will cause inability to access the Kubernetes Service API normally!

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /etc/systemd/system/containerd.service.d

cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/containerd.service.d/proxy.conf
[Service]
Environment="HTTP_PROXY=http://PROXY_IP:8234"
Environment="HTTPS_PROXY=http://PROXY_IP:8234"
Environment="NO_PROXY="10.96.0.1,localhost,127.0.0.1,::1"
EOF
```
Setting up a proxy for Containerd is mainly used when pulling Google images, but when starting Calico-related Pods, they will not start due to the proxy settings.
When getting Pod information, you will see the following content:

```bash
plugin type="calico" failed (add): error getting ClusterInformation: Get "https://10.96.0.1:443/apis/crd.projectcalico.org/v1/clusterinformations/default": Service Unavailable
```
Because a proxy was configured for Containerd, the containers started cannot access the Kubernetes Service IP normally. This problem troubled me for a long time. I looked up various materials and online issues on Google, but still couldn't solve it. Finally, I disabled the Containerd proxy after starting the Kubernetes cluster, then restarted Containerd and it worked normally.

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ >}}
sudo mv /etc/systemd/system/containerd.service.d/proxy.conf /etc/systemd/system/containerd.service.d/proxy.conf.back
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl restart containerd
{{< /prismjs >}}

# Configure crictl 

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ output="2-6" >}}
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/crictl.yaml
runtime-endpoint: unix:///run/containerd/containerd.sock
image-endpoint: unix:///run/containerd/containerd.sock
timeout: 5
debug: false
EOF
{{< /prismjs >}}

After configuration, you can use crictl to manage Pods and containers!

# Set sudo to Allow Environment Variables

Edit `/etc/sudoers` and uncomment the line `Defaults:%sudo env_keep += "http_proxy https_proxy ftp_proxy all_proxy no_proxy"`.

# Install Kube CLIs

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ output="3-4,6-7,9-10" >}}
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl

# Download Google Cloud public signing key
sudo curl -fsSLo /usr/share/keyrings/kubernetes-archive-keyring.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg

# Add Kubernetes APT source
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/kubernetes-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list

# Install kubelet, kubeadm and kubectl, and pin their version:
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y kubelet kubeadm kubectl
sudo apt-mark hold kubelet kubeadm kubectl
{{< /prismjs >}}

# Set Domain Name Resolution

Add the names `cluster-master` and `cluster-endpoint` to `/etc/hosts`, with the corresponding address being the current server's IP.

# Summary

At this point, the preparation environment for Kubernetes is ready, and you can now initialize the cluster through kubeadm. Although I spent two days troubleshooting proxy issues, I'm glad it was finally resolved.

Ah, network problems really make many people take unnecessary detours!

I hope this is helpful, Happy hacking...