---
title: Using Go Workspace to Implement Local Extension Packages
date: 2022-10-31T15:42:10+08:00
author: George
authorTwitter: GeorgeBornAgain
cover: covers/20221101-go-workspace.jpg
images:
  - covers/20221101-go-workspace.jpg
tags: [Go, Workspace, Modules]
keywords: [Go, Workspace, Modules]
description: Using Go Workspace to implement local extension packages, avoiding the need to publish to Gitlab after each modification, improving development efficiency
showFullContent: false
readingTime: true
draft: false
---

# Introduction

In the previous blog post, I discussed how to solve the problem of installing private extension packages from Gitlab, but I also discovered a series of issues:

* Pulling directly from Gitlab Repository: The biggest problem with this approach is that if there are code changes in the dependent package, you have to go through the entire Gitflow process each time, which is quite cumbersome!
* Using `replace` to substitute Gitlab packages with local directories: This approach solves the above problem but creates a new one - when development is complete and code is submitted, you need to manually delete all the replace configurations in the go.mod file. This is manageable if the project has only one or two packages, but it becomes a disaster with more.

Workspace was created to solve this problem. It has higher priority than go.mod, so if you create a go.work file in the project directory, you only need to configure replace in go.work.

# Initializing Workspace

Before initializing a Workspace for the project, we can see that the `GOWORK` configuration in Go Env (line 32) is currently empty:

{{< prismjs lang=bash line-numbers=true command-line=true prompt=$ output="2-39" line="32" >}}
go env
GO111MODULE="on"
GOARCH="arm64"
GOBIN=""
GOCACHE="/Users/George/Library/Caches/go-build"
GOENV="/Users/George/Library/Application Support/go/env"
GOEXE=""
GOEXPERIMENT=""
GOFLAGS=""
GOHOSTARCH="arm64"
GOHOSTOS="darwin"
GOINSECURE=""
GOMODCACHE="/Users/George/Develop/Go/pkg/mod"
GONOPROXY=""
GONOSUMDB="gitlab.example.com/services/modules"
GOOS="darwin"
GOPATH="/Users/George/Develop/Go"
GOPRIVATE=""
GOPROXY="direct"
GOROOT="/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.19.2/libexec"
GOSUMDB="sum.golang.org"
GOTMPDIR=""
GOTOOLDIR="/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.19.2/libexec/pkg/tool/darwin_arm64"
GOVCS=""
GOVERSION="go1.19.2"
GCCGO="gccgo"
AR="ar"
CC="clang"
CXX="clang++"
CGO_ENABLED="1"
GOMOD="/Users/George/Develop/GA/udfs/server/go.mod"
GOWORK=""
CGO_CFLAGS="-g -O2"
CGO_CPPFLAGS=""
CGO_CXXFLAGS="-g -O2"
CGO_FFLAGS="-g -O2"
CGO_LDFLAGS="-g -O2"
PKG_CONFIG="pkg-config"
GOGCCFLAGS="-fPIC -arch arm64 -pthread -fno-caret-diagnostics -Qunused-arguments -fmessage-length=0 -fdebug-prefix-map=/var/folders/p6/g0wwf37d165dfg5hvqtr9l180000gn/T/go-build1666497732=/tmp/go-build -gno-record-gcc-switches -fno-common"
{{< /prismjs >}}

Next, execute the command to initialize the Workspace:

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ output="3-39" >}}
go work init .
cat go.work
go 1.19

use .
{{< /prismjs >}}

This will create a go.work file in the project directory. Now if you check Go Env again, you'll find that the value of `GOWORK` has changed to `go.work` in the current directory:

```bash
GOWORK="/Users/George/Develop/udfs/server/go.work"
```

# Installing Dependencies Locally

You can include multiple local package paths in `use`, so that during local development, Go will automatically replace remote packages with those under the Workspace:

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ output="2-7" >}}
cat go.work
go 1.19

use (
    .
    ../modules/inquiry
)
{{< /prismjs >}}

You can also use `replace` in `go.work` to substitute dependencies declared in `go.mod` with local package paths:

{{< prismjs lang=bash command-line=true prompt=$ output="3-7" >}}
go work edit -replace=gitlab.example.com/services/modules/inquiry=/Users/George/Develop/services/modules/inquiry
cat go.work
go 1.19

use .

replace gitlab.example.com/services/modules/inquiry => /Users/George/Develop/services/modules/inquiry
{{< /prismjs >}}

This defines a replace in the `go.work` file, using the local project as the package source. The local directory can be a relative or absolute path, but the directory must contain a go.mod file.

> Additionally, you should add the `go.work` and `go.work.sum` files to the `.gitignore` configuration file, otherwise it will cause the package to not be found in CI/CD.

# Conclusion

At this point, the local development problem is solved, avoiding the need to go through the package release process every time there's a modification. But a new problem arises: in the CI/CD process, how do we specify whether to install from a Release Tag or from a test branch based on the environment?

I will continue to explore this issue in future CI/CD practices and look for best practice solutions!

I hope this is helpful, Happy hacking...